Kubernetes pack update (#1158)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/06-integrations/00-kubernetes.md

---
title: "Kubernetes"
metaTitle: "Kubernetes in Palette"

> metaDescription: "Kubernetes pack in Palette"

Reviewer: Let's give a more insightful description for search engine optimization purposes.

Author: changed to say "Kubernetes pack that deploys containers in Palette"

# Kubernetes

The Kubernetes pack defines the default properties that we use to deploy Kubernetes clusters. Most of the Kubernetes hardening standards that the Center for Internet Security (CIS) recommends are enabled by default. The Kubernetes pack supports most [cloud and data center infrastructure providers](/clusters).

Spectro Cloud offers Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) Kubernetes as a core infrastructure pack in Palette. We release Kubernetes updates as follows:

<br />

- Major versions are assessed based on the extent of changes.
- Minor versions are provided within eight weeks of a new Kubernetes release.
- Patch versions are provided within four weeks of a new Kubernetes release.

In the period of time following a Kubernetes release, the Kubernetes pack undergoes rigorous vulnerability scans and penetration testing. 

> A minor Kubernetes version will be deprecated in Palette when the Kubernetes community announces the version is entering End of Life (EOL). The deprecated version will remain in that state for three months and will be disabled after a quarter and deleted from Palette in the following quarter.

Reviewer 2: Should we explain somewhere what is meant by deprecate , disable and delete? This is not yet available on the UI as of now and in proposal stage.

Author: @vishwanaths This information is now added and will be moved to a separate doc about deprecated packs.

<br />

## Versions Supported

<Tabs>

<Tabs.TabPane tab="1.26.x" key="k8s_v1.26">

## Prerequisites

- A minimum of 4 CPU and 4GB Memory.

- Operating System (OS) dependencies as listed in the table.

| OS Distribution | OS Version | Supports Kubernetes 1.26.x |
|---------------|------------|----------------------------|
| CentOS        | 7.7        | ❌                         |
| Ubuntu        | 22.04      | ✅                         |
| Ubuntu        | 20.04      | ❌                         |
| Ubuntu        | 18.04      | ❌                         |

## Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| ``pack:k8sHardening``  | Flag to decide if Kubernetes hardening should be applied. Default: ``True``. When set to ``True``, additional flags configured in `kubeadmconfig` will be honored and will be set to the corresponding components.|

> | ``pack:podCIDR`` | The CIDR range for Pods in cluster. This should match the networking layer property ``calicoNetworkCIDR``. Default: `192.168.0.0/16`|

Reviewer 2: calicoNetworkCIDR - this will be present only if calico is used as CNI.  You can say that - "This should match the corresponding networking layer property. Eg: calicoNetworkCIDR. Same applies to other k8s versions below as well.
"

Author: Good catch @vishwanaths. Removed mention of calicoNetworkCIDR.

# Kubernetes

> The Kubernetes pack defines the properties that Spectro Cloud uses to deploy Kubernetes clusters. Most of the Kubernetes hardening standards that the Center for Internet Security (CIS) recommends are enabled by default. The Kubernetes pack supports most [cloud and data center infrastructure providers](/clusters).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes pack defines the default properties that we use to deploy Kubernetes clusters. Most of the Kubernetes hardening standards that the Center for Internet Security (CIS) recommends are enabled by default. The Kubernetes pack supports most [cloud and data center infrastructure providers](/clusters).
```
This is a good spot for us to use we. Whenever possible, let's use "we" otherwise it can feel like we are creating distance between ourselves and docs.

Spectro Cloud offers Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) Kubernetes as a core infrastructure pack in Palette. We release Kubernetes updates as follows:

<br />

- Major versions are assessed based on the extent of changes.
- Minor versions are provided within eight weeks of a new Kubernetes release.
- Patch versions are provided within four weeks of a new Kubernetes release.

In the period of time following a Kubernetes release, the Kubernetes pack undergoes rigorous vulnerability scans and penetration testing. 

A minor Kubernetes version will be deprecated in Palette when the Kubernetes community announces the version is entering End of Life (EOL). The deprecated version will remain in that state for three months and will be disabled after a quarter and deleted from Palette in the following quarter.

<br />

## Versions Supported

<Tabs>

<Tabs.TabPane tab="1.26.x" key="k8s_v1.26">

## Prerequisites

- A minimum of 4 CPU and 4GB Memory.

- Operating System (OS) dependencies as listed in the table.

> | Operating System | Kubernetes 1.26.x |

Reviewer: This could be me, but it was not obvious what the X represented. I'm guessing it means "not available"? It will help if we explain the table a bit.  In the second column of the table, I wonder if we state "Support Enabled" could clarify the confusion. 

We could also use these icons ✅ and ❌ to improve readability.  If you want to use those icons, you literally can copy and paste them to the markdown 😄

Author: Discussed with Karl and implemented his proposed table.

|-----------|-------------|
| Centos 7.7 | x |
| Ubuntu 22.04 | 1.26.1 |
| Ubuntu 20.04 | x |
| Ubuntu 18.04 | x |

## Parameters

> | Parameter | Description | Required (Y/N) |

Reviewer: I would place all the parameters in code ticks.

Author: fixed

- Updating to a newer Kubernetes version must be done incrementally, one minor version at a time. 

</WarningBox>

# Versions Supported

<Tabs>

<Tabs.TabPane tab="1.26.x" key="k8s_v1.26">

## Prerequisites

- A minimum of 4 CPU and 4GB Memory.

- Operating System (OS) dependencies as listed in the table.

| OS Distribution | OS Version | Supports Kubernetes 1.26.x |
|---------------|------------|----------------------------|
| CentOS        | 7.7        | ❌                         |
| Ubuntu        | 22.04      | ✅                         |
| Ubuntu        | 20.04      | ❌                         |
| Ubuntu        | 18.04      | ❌                         |

## Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| ``pack:k8sHardening``  | Flag to decide if Kubernetes hardening should be applied. Default: ``True``. When set to ``True``, additional flags configured in `kubeadmconfig` will be honored and will be set to the corresponding components.|
| ``pack:podCIDR`` | The CIDR range for Pods in cluster. This should match the networking layer property ``calicoNetworkCIDR``. Default: `192.168.0.0/16`|

> | ``pack:serviceClusterIpRange`` | The CIDR range for services in the cluster. This should not overlap with any IP ranges assigned to nodes for pods. Default: `10.96.0.0/12`|

Reviewer 3: There's a typo in here. Should be "nodes or pods"

Author: Good catch @brathina-spectro. Fixed typo throughout doc.

- **Delete**: When a pack is deleted, you will not be able to create new cluster profiles using the pack or launch new clusters using the existing profiles that contain the pack.  Palette displays a message informing you to cut over to the newer version of the pack. There is no disruption to existing cluster workloads and will continue to be functional.

<br />

<InfoBox>

For important guidelines on updating packs, review the [Update Packs](/integrations/update-packs/update-packs) guide.

</InfoBox>

# Versions Supported

<Tabs>

<Tabs.TabPane tab="1.26.x" key="k8s_v1.26">

## Prerequisites

- A minimum of 4 CPU and 4GB Memory.

- Operating System (OS) dependencies as listed in the table.

| OS Distribution | OS Version | Supports Kubernetes 1.26.x |
|---------------|------------|----------------------------|
| CentOS        | 7.7        | ❌                         |
| Ubuntu        | 22.04      | ✅                         |
| Ubuntu        | 20.04      | ❌                         |
| Ubuntu        | 18.04      | ❌                         |

## Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|

> | ``pack:k8sHardening``  | Flag to decide if Kubernetes hardening should be applied. Default: ``True``. When set to ``True``, additional flags configured in `kubeadmconfig` will be honored and will be set to the corresponding components.|

Reviewer 4: It turns out that this flag **cannot** be set to `False` as that breaks most cluster deployments. @sadysnaat I thought this flag was going to made hidden?

> | ``pack:podCIDR`` | The CIDR range for Pods in cluster. This should match the networking layer property. Default: `192.168.0.0/16`|

Reviewer 4: We are adding `pack:serviceDomain` in the next update (3.3.x), we may as well add that to the documentation too.

| ``pack:serviceDomain`` | The DNS name for the service domain in the cluster. Default: `cluster.local`|

Author: Added this parameter.

  As you build your cluster, check that the ``podCIDR`` value does not overlap with any hosts or with the service network and the ``serviceClusterIpRange`` value does not overlap with any IP ranges assigned to nodes or pods. For more information, refer to the [Clusters](/clusters) guide and [Cluster Deployment Errors](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/troubleshooting/cluster-deployment). 

- Configure OpenID Connect (OIDC) parameters to specify a third-party Identify Provider (IDP). For more information, refer to the [Use RBAC With OIDC](/clusters/cluster-management/cluster-rbac/#userbacwithoidc) guide.

- Add a certificate for the Spectro Proxy pack if you want to use a reverse proxy with a Kubernetes cluster. For more information, refer to the [Spectro Proxy](/integrations/frp) guide.

#### Configuration Changes

The Kubeadm config has been updated with improved hardening. 

<br />

#### Example Kubeadm configuration file 

```yaml
pack:
  k8sHardening: True
  podCIDR: "192.168.0.0/16"
  serviceClusterIpRange: "10.96.0.0/12"

> 

Reviewer 4: #servicedomain: "cluster.local"

Spectro Cloud offers Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) Kubernetes as a core infrastructure pack in Palette. We release Kubernetes updates as follows:

<br />

- Major versions are assessed based on the extent of changes.
- Minor versions are provided within eight weeks of a new Kubernetes release.
- Patch versions are provided within four weeks of a new Kubernetes release.

In the period of time following a Kubernetes release, the Kubernetes pack undergoes rigorous vulnerability scans and penetration testing. 

A minor Kubernetes version will be deprecated in Palette when the Kubernetes community announces the version is entering End of Life (EOL). The deprecated version will remain in that state for three months and will be disabled after a quarter and deleted from Palette in the following quarter.

Below are the stages of deprecation:

<br />

- **Deprecate**: When a pack is deprecated, Palette displays a warning. You will still be able to create new cluster profiles using the pack and launch clusters using existing profiles that contain the pack.

> - **Delete**: When a pack is disabled, you will no longer be allowed to create new cluster profiles that using the pack. Palette displays a message informing you to cut over to the newer version of the pack. However, you can still deploy new clusters using existing profiles that contain the deprecated pack.

Reviewer 3: Should this be disabled ? Both this and the next paragraph says Delete

Author: This is from the [Decprecation Schedule](https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ENGINEERIN/pages/1863843883/Packs+Deprecation). Leaving it as is.

![CleanShot 2023-03-28 at 11 16 22](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117382432/228330947-56f6e320-5263-492c-957c-0bfa37503a56.png)
